hey this is pressure Locker here's an
email I received slightly edited for
presentation in this video
hi I'm juni a senior high school student
in the Philippines grade 11 big fan of
yours on YouTube
can you please solve this I'm curious
about this smallest number for which all
numbers 1 to 100 are factors of that
number I assume it has 25 or more digits
I know the method to solve the problem
which is I've removed this part of the
email as it would spoil the puzzle but
my calculator cannot handle such a large
number can you solve it thank you
I did some research and I found the
answer online and the number actually
has 41 digits the number is pronounced
69 do Oda Cillian 720 undecillion 375
dessaline 229 non-alien 712 octillion
477 septillion 164 sextillion 533
quintillion 808 quadrillion 935 trillion
312 billion 303 million five hundred
fifty-six thousand eight hundred this is
a very special number and the puzzle for
you what is the prime factorization of
this number can you figure it out give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for the solution
in general finding the prime
factorization of a large number is a
computationally difficult problem so
we're going to solve the problem using
elementary number theory the number n is
the least common multiple or LCM of all
the whole numbers from 1 to 100 so n is
the product of the highest power of the
primes from 1 to 100 this ensures that
every single number from 1 to 100
whatever its prime factorization is all
of those prime factors will be included
in N so we include every prime number
that's less than 100 we also need to
account if there are repeated prime
factors in order to do that we find the
highest power of each prime that's less
than 100 for example 2 to the 6th is
equal to 64 so we need 6 factors of 2 in
N now one more factor of 2 2 to the
seventh would actually be larger than
100 it would be 128 so we do not have 7
factors of 2 then we have 3 to the power
of 4 is equal to 81 the next higher
power would be higher than 100 we have 5
squared is equal to 25 7 squared is
equal to 49 and then the next prime 11
square is larger than 100 so we don't
have two factors of 11 every other prime
that's larger than 11 will have a square
that exceeds 102 so we're done checking
for repeated prime factors so these are
all the prime factors that are in N so
we can then write n is equal to the
product of all these prime factors
raised to the highest power that's less
than 100 that's 2 to the power 6 3 to
the power 4 5 squared 7 squared and then
all the other Prime's 11 13 17 19 23 29
31 37 41 43 47 53 59 61 67 71 73 7
nine eighty three eighty nine and ninety
seven did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel and make videos on math you
can catch me on my blog mind your
decisions if you like this video you can
check out my books which are listed in
the video description you can also
support me on patreon and catch me on
social media either at mind your
decisions or at presh tell walker